docs/applications/overview.md, before:

---
id: overview
title: Core Concepts
---

This page outlines some key concepts of the various Talawa applications.

## Society​
Societies are groups of people who participate either directly or indirectly with an installation of the suite of Talawa apps. Each instance of the Talawa API only manages a single society.

- For example, a society could be a club that has members across an entire country, state or city.

### Organizations
Groups of people in a society that have some unique commonality. 

- For example, If a national club decides to create a Talawa society that covers a country, then each organization could cover the club's followers in each city.

### People in Societies

There are many types of people who use Talawa either directly, or indirectly:
1. **Users**: These are people who indirectly use Talawa. 
    1. For example: People who may attend an event tracked in Talawa and have their information entered into the system as part of the attendance process. 
1. **Members**: These are people who directly use Talawa either with the mobile app, or as an administrator with Talawa Admin. 
    1. Members may register their Talawa mobile app with an organization within a society once the appropriate approvals have been given.
1. **Admin**: These are members who use use Talawa Admin to manage the people in an organization.
     1. Super Admins can promote Users and Members to Admin status
1. **Super Admin**: These are members who use use Talawa Admin to manage all organizations in a society.
     1. Super Admins can promote Users and Members to Admin or Super Admin status

## Events

Event management is a major Talawa component.

### Event Terminologies

Here are some important terminologies used in Talawa event management:

1. **Open Event**: Events that are open to everyone
1. **Registrable Event**: An open event that requires the additional step of event registration. These events would typically have limited capacity and therefore would require members to register beforehand.
1. **Closed Events**: These are events that are by invitation only.
    1. **Private events**: Closed events that only show up in the mobile app calendars of invitees

### Event Features
Events have many features as you can see below.

#### Event Creation

Events can:
1. be created either in the mobile app or Talawa Admin.
1. only be edited by the event organizers and admins

#### Event Checkins

Checkins are a way of tracking attendance to all types of events. They have many valuable uses such as the ability to:

1. add users to the organization if they turn up to an event.
1. convert users to members when they attend an event.

#### Event Group Chats

Talawa includes the ability of members invited or registered to an event to automatically be added to a group chat for that event. This allows greater coordination and community spirit in the organization's groups.

#### Event Roles
Talawa includes the ability of members attending events to be assigned tasks/roles that can be tracked in their app by all attendees. This helps in event management.

Commit message:

Changed references to Society to Community

docs/applications/overview.md, after:

---
id: overview
title: Core Concepts
---

This page outlines some key concepts of the various Talawa applications.

## Community​
Communities are groups of people who participate either directly or indirectly with an installation of the suite of Talawa apps. Each instance of the Talawa API only manages a single community.

- For example, a community could be a club that has members across an entire country, state or city.

### Organizations
Groups of people in a community that have some unique commonality. 

- For example, If a national club decides to create a Talawa community that covers a country, then each organization could cover the club's followers in each city.

### People in Communities

There are many types of people who use Talawa either directly, or indirectly:
1. **Users**: These are people who indirectly use Talawa. 
    1. For example: People who may attend an event tracked in Talawa and have their information entered into the system as part of the attendance process. 
1. **Members**: These are people who directly use Talawa either with the mobile app, or as an administrator with Talawa Admin. 
    1. Members may register their Talawa mobile app with an organization within a community once the appropriate approvals have been given.
1. **Admin**: These are members who use use Talawa Admin to manage the people in an organization.
     1. Super Admins can promote Users and Members to Admin status
1. **Super Admin**: These are members who use use Talawa Admin to manage all organizations in a community.
     1. Super Admins can promote Users and Members to Admin or Super Admin status

## Events

Event management is a major Talawa component.

### Event Terminologies

Here are some important terminologies used in Talawa event management:

1. **Open Event**: Events that are open to everyone
1. **Registrable Event**: An open event that requires the additional step of event registration. These events would typically have limited capacity and therefore would require members to register beforehand.
1. **Closed Events**: These are events that are by invitation only.
    1. **Private events**: Closed events that only show up in the mobile app calendars of invitees

### Event Features
Events have many features as you can see below.

#### Event Creation

Events can:
1. be created either in the mobile app or Talawa Admin.
1. only be edited by the event organizers and admins

#### Event Checkins

Checkins are a way of tracking attendance to all types of events. They have many valuable uses such as the ability to:

1. add users to the organization if they turn up to an event.
1. convert users to members when they attend an event.

#### Event Group Chats

Talawa includes the ability of members invited or registered to an event to automatically be added to a group chat for that event. This allows greater coordination and community spirit in the organization's groups.

#### Event Roles
Talawa includes the ability of members attending events to be assigned tasks/roles that can be tracked in their app by all attendees. This helps in event management.
