docs/branding/logos.md, before:

---
id: branding-logos
title: Talawa Logos
---

We have centralized the location of all the files we use to create our logos.

[Our official logo formats](https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa-docs/tree/master/static/img/logos) can be found here.
## Idea
Our logo is made up of 2 shapes, circle & rectangle, it represents,

1. "**Talawa**" in the Jamaican dialect means "**Strong**", and there is a saying "**Little, but Talawa**", which translates to "**Little, but Strong**".
2. We used Palisadoes Foundation logo's elements and colors to preserve the core ideologies.

## Clear space
The logo needs to have clear space, free of text, pictures, and other elements.

![Clear Space](./assets/logo-guidelines.png)

## Color
**Dark Background** or **White Background** logos can be used and in-case they are not suitable, **Transparent** ones can be used without altering the clear space rules.
The primary colors of our logo are,

 - #31BB6B - Medium Sea Green
 - #FEBC59 - Max Yellow Red
 - #737373 - Sonic Silver

### Color Palette

![ColorPalette](./assets/colorcodes-names-s.png)

![Color Palette Large](./assets/colorcodes.png)

Commit message:

Make the branding page more readable.

docs/branding/logos.md, after:

---
id: branding-logos
title: Talawa Logos
---

This page contains information pertaining to how we use our logos.

## Logo Repository

You can find the various file formats of our logos in [our official logo repository](https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa-docs/tree/master/static/img/logos)


## Design Elements

This section describes the various design elements for the Talawa logo.

### Concept

This section describes the significance of the logo.

![Small Logo](/img/logos/talawa-logo-200x200.png)

1. The logo is an abstract representation of a small human being. 'Talawa' in the Jamaican dialect means 'strong', and the logo symbolizes the a well known saying on the island 'Little, but Talawa'.
1. It is made up of 2 shapes. A circle resting upon diagonally angled rectangles.
1. The colors and shapes used are based on those of the Palisadoes Foundation's logo elements.

### Clear Space
The logo needs to have clear space, free of text, pictures, and other elements.

![Clear Space](/img/logos/talawa-logo-clear-space.png)

### Color

The logo is suitable for both light and dark backgrounds which facilitates its use in most design scenarios. The logos in the repository all conform with the clear space rules.

The logo colors are:

 - #31BB6B - Medium Sea Green
 - #FEBC59 - Max Yellow Red
 - #737373 - Sonic Silver

![ColorPalette](/img/logos/talawa-logo-colors.png)
