docs/internships/github/application-process.md, before:

---
id: github-application-process
title: Applying
---

Details are announced now and we are in the project discussion phase. We encourage you to discuss you application with the project community.

## Introduction

In order to apply we ask that you create:

1. a list of deliverables, quantifiable results for the Palisadoes community,
1. a detailed description / design document,
1. an approach,
1. an approximate schedule and
1. something of a background text.
1. We also need you to let us know what other commitments you have for the coding period, for example, do you have any exams or a part time job? In other words &#8211; sell yourselves, as if this was an actual job.

In drawing up your proposal you should work with your chosen projects community.

One of our evaluation criteria is that you have already engaged with the community to ensure that you understand the needs of the project and the commitment you need to make to your mentors.

Persons who have engaged with a meaningful pull request (PR) will be given a preference. If you cannot find a suitable idea, feature or bug for a pull request, don't worry. We know our code needs refactoring. You can propose optimizations for scalability, readability and more. Use a PR to show your capabilities in this area. These PRs will be given less weight.

We may give shortlisted candidates short code challenges to confirm our final decisions.

### Feedback on Your Draft Proposal

Get feedback on your draft application proposal at:

![img](/img/draft-submissions.png)

### Submitting Your Final Proposal

Submit your final applications at:

![img](/img/submissions.png)

Commit message:

Updated submission process for the GitHub Externship program

docs/internships/github/application-process.md, after:

---
id: github-application-process
title: Applying
---

Details are announced now and we are in the project discussion phase. We encourage you to discuss you application with the project community.

## Introduction

In order to apply we ask that you create:

1. a list of deliverables, quantifiable results for the Palisadoes community,
1. a detailed description / design document,
1. an approach,
1. an approximate schedule and
1. something of a background text.
1. We also need you to let us know what other commitments you have for the coding period, for example, do you have any exams or a part time job? In other words &#8211; sell yourselves, as if this was an actual job.

In drawing up your proposal you should work with your chosen projects community.

One of our evaluation criteria is that you have already engaged with the community to ensure that you understand the needs of the project and the commitment you need to make to your mentors.

Persons who have engaged with a meaningful pull request (PR) will be given a preference. If you cannot find a suitable idea, feature or bug for a pull request, don't worry. We know our code needs refactoring. You can propose optimizations for scalability, readability and more. Use a PR to show your capabilities in this area. These PRs will be given less weight.

We may give shortlisted candidates short code challenges to confirm our final decisions.

### Feedback on Your Draft Proposal

Get feedback on your draft application proposal at:

![img](/img/draft-submissions.png)

### Submitting Your Final Proposal

Submit your final applications on the GitHub Externship web site.
