---
id: members-preapprovals
title: Pre-Approvals
---

:::caution

This section is a work in progress.

:::

## Code: MEM-003

_Authored by_ _ **Xavier Bryson** _ _. Last updated on_ _ **14/03/21** _

This feature aims to _ **provide more security within the signup process** _ by _ **incorporating a method for validating new users registering for an organization within the app** _.

## Overview

### Problem

1. **Anyone is able to sign up for an organization within the application:**

We need a method for administrators to pre-approve users. Additionally, we need to assume that users may not have access to email and that text message service integration will not be immediately available.

### Goals

1. **Allow for a secure method of approving new members to an organization within the app** :
 Enable the admin to oversee the registration and/or approval of members to an organization. The process should be seamless and intuitive to both users (Admin &amp; Members) of the application.

### Out of Scope

N/A

### People and Roles

1. **Xavier Bryson (Feature Lead)**: Make decision on final solution.


## Context

### Use Cases

TBD.

## Proposal/Solution

1. A pre-approved list of phone numbers.

2. QR code approvals by admins or their lieutenants through the app

3. One time password/token given to the user generated by admins

 Note: Ideally the QR code should contain all the organizations API login information so that it doesn&#39;t need to be rekeyed.

### User Experience

**NB:** Only one of the solutions outlined below should be implemented

#### Solution 1:
  1. Admins will have access to a list of registered numbers from the admin dashboard.
  2. Admins will be able to select a number from the list and approve/deny access.
  3. Members will receive an email/ in app notification once granted access.

#### Solution 2:
  1. Admins will have access to a screen containing a unique QR code.
  2. Admins will have the ability to regenerate the QR code (to be discussed)
  3. Member&#39;s will have access to a QR code scanner upon opening the app.

#### Solution 3:
  1. Admins will have access to a list of registered numbers.
  2. Admins will be able to select a number from the list and generate a unique token/password for a member.
  3. Admins will have access to a share button for sending the token/password to a member&#39;s email/whatsapp/phone number.
  4. Member&#39;s will be required to enter the info from the previous step after registering for an organization.
    
    <center> OR </center>
    
    Member&#39;s will be required to enter the provided token while registering for an organization.

### Important Details To Capture

N/A

### Future Work

N/A

## Tasks and Timeline

N/A