docs/internships/gsoc/introduction.md, before:

---
id: gsoc-introduction
title: Introduction
---

Google is sponsoring the [2021 Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/) and [The Palisadoes Foundation](http://www.palisadoes.org) is registered as a mentoring organization. This page is your entry point to the Palisadoes Foundation GSoC program. Please watch this page for updates concerning our participating in 2021.

### About Talawa

The Palisadoes Foundation has been sponsoring work on this open-source project for a number of years. We hope to launch it in alpha at the end of the summer. Talawa is a modular open source project to help community-based organizations such as clubs, neighborhood groups, volunteer associations, non-profits and small religious institutions manage their daily activities. Most user interaction is via a mobile app.

### Students Read This

This section outlines all you need to know about getting involved with the Palisadoes Foundation's GSoC program:

1. Learn [about GSoC](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/about/).
1. Decide if you are [eligible for GSoC](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/get-started/).
1. Review the [Advice for Students](https://opensource.googleblog.com/2011/03/dos-and-donts-of-google-summer-of-code.html) to make sure you really want to apply to GSoC.
1. Watch [GSoC video presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S6IP_6HG2QE) for students.
1. [Review the Talawa website](https://palisadoesfoundation.github.io/talawa.github.io/).
1. [Read our presentation for 2021 GSoC students](http://www.palisadoes.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/gsoc-2021-talawa.pdf)
1. Learn more about [Talawa on our YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hKLeU3MlGwY&list=PLv50qHwThlJVTUZsVz2CbRSi2f8uF9XE6).
1. Examine the list of available [Palisadoes Foundation GSoC ideas](https://palisadoesfoundation.github.io/talawa-docs/docs/internships/ideas).
1. Research the GitHub issue trackers for the projects at:
    1. Talawa: [https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa/issues](https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa/issues)
    1. Talawa-API: [https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa-api/issues](https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa-api/issues)
    1. Talawa-Admin: [https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa-admin/issues](https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa-admin/issues)
1. Introduce yourself on our *#introductions* slack channel. You can join our [Slack Channel using this link](http://slack.palisadoes.org).
1. If you do not see any interesting projects from the proposed ideas or issues, we encourage you to contact the Palisadoes Foundation’s mailing list and propose a new idea. The Palisadoes Foundation does not encourage and will not respond to your personal new open source project ideas which are unrelated to any Palisadoes projects.
    1. You can subscribe to our list at [https://www.freelists.org/list/palisadoes](https://www.freelists.org/list/palisadoes).  
    1. You can send queries to:
           ![img](/img/email/freelists.png)
1. The `Ideas list` is manually updated, please contact our mentors if the page is not being updated.
1. Mentors can be contacted on our slack channel or at:
       ![img](/img/email/mentors.png)

Good luck!

### Palisadoes Foundation GSoC 2021 Timeline

Below is a timeline of events for The Palisadoes Foundation's involvement in GSoC. Unless otherwise stated deadlines are 24:00 UTC on the date indicated.

#### Student Application and Selection

1. 2021-03-30: Student applications start
1. 2021-04-13 18:00 UTC: Student applications deadline
1. 2021-04-01: Proposals to Palisadoes Foundation projects must be reviewed roughly and have a potential mentor so that we know how many slots to request. Proposals that don’t have a mentor at this point will be down-rated.
1. 2021-05-05: Proposal scoring must be completed. Proposals without a score will be rejected, no exceptions.
1. 2021-05-18: Accepted student proposals announced on the Google Summer of Code site.

#### GSoC is Underway

1. 2021-05-18: Community bonding start
1. 2021-06-08: Community bonding end
1. 2021-06-08: Coding start
1. 2021-07-13: Midterm evaluations can be submitted
1. 2021-07-16: Midterm evaluations deadline

#### Wind Down

1. 2021-08-17: Coding deadline and final evaluations can be submitted
1. 2021-08-24: Palisadoes Foundation Mentors evaluations can be submitted
1. 2021-08-30: Palisadoes Foundation Mentors final evaluations deadline
1. 2021-09-01: Results announced

### Other Useful Links

Here are some resources you can use to learn more about GSoC

1. [Google Summer of Code Home](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/)
1. [Official Google Summer of Code 2021 Timeline, FAQs](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/how-it-works/#timeline)
1. [GSoC discussion list](https://groups.google.com/group/google-summer-of-code-discuss)
1. [Python notes on expectations](https://wiki.python.org/moin/SummerOfCode/Expectations)
1. #gsoc on Freenode

Commit message:

[Improvement] Changes in GSoC 2022 eligibility criteria

docs/internships/gsoc/introduction.md, after:

---
id: gsoc-introduction
title: Introduction
---

Google is sponsoring the [2021 Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/) and [The Palisadoes Foundation](http://www.palisadoes.org) is registered as a mentoring organization. This page is your entry point to the Palisadoes Foundation GSoC program. Please watch this page for updates concerning our participating in 2021.

### About Talawa

The Palisadoes Foundation has been sponsoring work on this open-source project for a number of years. We hope to launch it in alpha at the end of the summer. Talawa is a modular open source project to help community-based organizations such as clubs, neighborhood groups, volunteer associations, non-profits and small religious institutions manage their daily activities. Most user interaction is via a mobile app.

### Students Read This

This section outlines all you need to know about getting involved with the Palisadoes Foundation's GSoC program:

1. Learn [about GSoC](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/about/).
1. Decide if you are [eligible for GSoC](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/get-started/).
1. Review the [Advice for Students](https://opensource.googleblog.com/2011/03/dos-and-donts-of-google-summer-of-code.html) to make sure you really want to apply to GSoC.
1. Watch [GSoC video presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S6IP_6HG2QE) for students.
1. [Review the Talawa website](https://palisadoesfoundation.github.io/talawa.github.io/).
1. [Read our presentation for 2021 GSoC students](http://www.palisadoes.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/gsoc-2021-talawa.pdf)
1. Learn more about [Talawa on our YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hKLeU3MlGwY&list=PLv50qHwThlJVTUZsVz2CbRSi2f8uF9XE6).
1. Examine the list of available [Palisadoes Foundation GSoC ideas](https://palisadoesfoundation.github.io/talawa-docs/docs/internships/ideas).
1. Research the GitHub issue trackers for the projects at:
    1. Talawa: [https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa/issues](https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa/issues)
    1. Talawa-API: [https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa-api/issues](https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa-api/issues)
    1. Talawa-Admin: [https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa-admin/issues](https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa-admin/issues)
1. Introduce yourself on our *#introductions* slack channel. You can join our [Slack Channel using this link](http://slack.palisadoes.org).
1. If you do not see any interesting projects from the proposed ideas or issues, we encourage you to contact the Palisadoes Foundation’s mailing list and propose a new idea. The Palisadoes Foundation does not encourage and will not respond to your personal new open source project ideas which are unrelated to any Palisadoes projects.
    1. You can subscribe to our list at [https://www.freelists.org/list/palisadoes](https://www.freelists.org/list/palisadoes).  
    1. You can send queries to:
           ![img](/img/email/freelists.png)
1. The `Ideas list` is manually updated, please contact our mentors if the page is not being updated.
1. Mentors can be contacted on our slack channel or at:
       ![img](/img/email/mentors.png)
1. Read more about the [changes in the eligibilty criteria for GSoC 2022](https://opensource.googleblog.com/2021/11/expanding-google-summer-of-code-in-2022.html#:~:text=Expanding%20Google%20Summer%20of%20Code%20in%202022%20Wednesday%2C,source%20contributors%20into%20OSS%20communities%20big%20and%20small.).

Good luck!

### Palisadoes Foundation GSoC 2021 Timeline

Below is a timeline of events for The Palisadoes Foundation's involvement in GSoC. Unless otherwise stated deadlines are 24:00 UTC on the date indicated.

#### Student Application and Selection

1. 2021-03-30: Student applications start
1. 2021-04-13 18:00 UTC: Student applications deadline
1. 2021-04-01: Proposals to Palisadoes Foundation projects must be reviewed roughly and have a potential mentor so that we know how many slots to request. Proposals that don’t have a mentor at this point will be down-rated.
1. 2021-05-05: Proposal scoring must be completed. Proposals without a score will be rejected, no exceptions.
1. 2021-05-18: Accepted student proposals announced on the Google Summer of Code site.

#### GSoC is Underway

1. 2021-05-18: Community bonding start
1. 2021-06-08: Community bonding end
1. 2021-06-08: Coding start
1. 2021-07-13: Midterm evaluations can be submitted
1. 2021-07-16: Midterm evaluations deadline

#### Wind Down

1. 2021-08-17: Coding deadline and final evaluations can be submitted
1. 2021-08-24: Palisadoes Foundation Mentors evaluations can be submitted
1. 2021-08-30: Palisadoes Foundation Mentors final evaluations deadline
1. 2021-09-01: Results announced

### Other Useful Links

Here are some resources you can use to learn more about GSoC

1. [Google Summer of Code Home](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/)
1. [Official Google Summer of Code 2021 Timeline, FAQs](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/how-it-works/#timeline)
1. [GSoC discussion list](https://groups.google.com/group/google-summer-of-code-discuss)
1. [Python notes on expectations](https://wiki.python.org/moin/SummerOfCode/Expectations)
1. #gsoc on Freenode
