docs/about.md, before:

---
id: about
title: About Us
slug: /
---

Here is a brief introduction to who we are and the Talawa projects.
### About Palisadoes

The Palisadoes Foundation aims to provide new avenues of promoting Jamaica’s technology talent through a series of programs which create increased awareness of the island’s abilities in the global marketplace. It was founded by Jamaicans living in the United States.
​

Since 2016 we have managed the Calico Challenge that gives Jamaican students the opportunity to work on Open Source projects under the guidance of a mentor. Stipends are paid upon achieving pre-defined milestones. Funding is provided by the generous donations of many individuals and corporations. The open source projects available under the Palisadoes Foundation’s GitHub account.
​

Calico is modeled on the Google Summer of Code. In 2021 The Palisadoes Foundation was awarded participation in the Google Summer of Code.

### About Talawa

Talawa was created to help community based organizations collaborate with their membership. These organizations would include religious groups, non-profit charities, social groups and in limited cases, businesses.
​
Though software applications exist for these types of organizations (eg. Breeze ChMS, The Realm) they assume their memberships are fully literate and have access to email. We wanted to create a system that would work for countries with similar technology and education challenges as Jamaica.
​
Talawa has three main components. A mobile application with social media features, a web based portal to be used by the organization’s administrative team, and finally an API providing access to data and features.
​​
The Palisadoes Foundation wants to eventually host Talawa as a cloud service to help finance its education outreach.
​
Talawa’s desired main features are:
​
1. User news feed
1. Event calendars with lightweight project management
1. Group chats
1. Member notifications
1. Donation acceptance
1. Service provider level multi-organization capability
1. Plugin support for administration services such as billing

### Technologies Used

Technology plays an increasingly significant role in improving access to education for people living in impoverished areas and developing countries. Some of the technologies that are being used by Talawa are:

1. Front-end Technologies: HTML, CSS, and JavaScript (React) is used to create the website's front-end user interface. And, Flutter is used to create the mobile application. 

2. Back-end Technologies: Talawa uses server-side scripting languages like GraphQL and TypeScript to handle the website's back-end functionality.

3. Database Management System: Talawa API uses database management system like MongoDB with the mongoose ORM (Object–relational mapping) which is used to store and manage the website's data.

4. Security: Talawa uses various encryption technologies to protect sensitive data like SSL (Secure Socket Layer) which helps to create a secure encrypted connection between the server(our project) and the client and protects Talawa from hacking and other security threats.

5. Payment Processing: Talawa uses payment processing technology like Razorpay to handle payments. Talawa is also planning to have plugins that will interact with payment processing gateways. Plugins will interact with payment processing gateways by integrating the gateway's API into the plugin. This will allow the plugin to communicate with the payment gateway and process payments securely.

6. Cloud Hosting: The foundation may use a cloud hosting service like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud Platform (GCP) to host Talawa.

7. Content Management System (CMS): Talawa uses Docusaurus which is a powerful tool for creating and managing supporting documentation. It uses Markdown as its syntax, which enables users to write formatted content in a readable syntax. Additionally, it supports custom fields such as OpenAPI specs, making it an ideal choice for API documentation. It also has a style guide that ensures consistency across documents, and an offline/local search feature to make finding information easier.

Commit message:

Added the repositories links to various projects.
Made the suggested changes as well.

docs/about.md, after:

---
id: about
title: About Us
slug: /
---

Here is a brief introduction to who we are and the Talawa projects.
### About Palisadoes

The Palisadoes Foundation aims to provide new avenues of promoting Jamaica’s technology talent through a series of programs which create increased awareness of the island’s abilities in the global marketplace. It was founded by Jamaicans living in the United States.
​

Since 2016 we have managed the Calico Challenge that gives Jamaican students the opportunity to work on Open Source projects under the guidance of a mentor. Stipends are paid upon achieving pre-defined milestones. Funding is provided by the generous donations of many individuals and corporations. The open source projects available under the Palisadoes Foundation’s GitHub account.
​

Calico is modeled on the Google Summer of Code. In 2021 The Palisadoes Foundation was awarded participation in the Google Summer of Code.

### About Talawa

Talawa was created to help community based organizations collaborate with their membership. These organizations would include religious groups, non-profit charities, social groups and in limited cases, businesses.
​
Though software applications exist for these types of organizations (eg. Breeze ChMS, The Realm) they assume their memberships are fully literate and have access to email. We wanted to create a system that would work for countries with similar technology and education challenges as Jamaica.
​
Talawa has three main components. A mobile application with social media features, a web based portal to be used by the organization’s administrative team, and finally an API providing access to data and features.
​​
The Palisadoes Foundation wants to eventually host Talawa as a cloud service to help finance its education outreach.
​
Talawa’s desired main features are:
​
1. User news feed
1. Event calendars with lightweight project management
1. Group chats
1. Member notifications
1. Donation acceptance
1. Service provider level multi-organization capability
1. Plugin support for administration services such as billing

### Technologies Used

A brief introduction to all of the Technologies used by Talawa and the Github repositories of different projects. This serves as a resource to newcomers seeking a perspective of the collective community efforts. Link to the four major repositories under Talawa are given below:

* [Talawa](https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa): HTML, XML, YAML, SVG, Gradle, Python, JSON, Flutter and Dart are the technologies that are used by talawa.
* [Talawa-API](https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa-api): Talawa-API uses TypeScript, JSON, YAML, Shell and Python technologies.
* [Talawa-Admin](https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa-admin): Talawa-Admin uses CSS, TypeScript, TSX, YAML, Shell JSON, GraphQL and JavaScript technologies.
* [Talawa-Docs](https://github.com/PalisadoesFoundation/talawa-docs): Talawa-docs uses technologies like HTML, CSS, YAML, SVG, TSX, SCSS, JSON and JavaScript.

1. Front-end Technologies: HTML, CSS, and JavaScript (React) is used to create the website's front-end user interface. And, Flutter is used to create the mobile application.
2. Back-end Technologies: Talawa uses server-side scripting languages like GraphQL and TypeScript to handle the website's back-end functionality.
3. Database Management System: Talawa API uses database management system like MongoDB with the mongoose ORM (Object–relational mapping) which is used to store and manage the website's data.
4. Security: Talawa uses various encryption technologies to protect sensitive data like SSL (Secure Socket Layer) which helps to create a secure encrypted connection between the server (our project) and the client, and protects Talawa from hacking and other security threats.
5. Payment Processing: Talawa uses payment processing technology like Razorpay to handle payments. Talawa is also planning to have plugins that will interact with payment processing gateways. Plugins will interact with payment processing gateways by integrating the gateway's API into the plugin. This will allow the plugin to communicate with the payment gateway and process payments securely.
6. Cloud Hosting: The foundation may use a cloud hosting service like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud Platform (GCP) to host Talawa.
7. Content Management System (CMS): Talawa uses Docusaurus which is a powerful tool for creating and managing supporting documentation. It uses Markdown as its syntax, which enables users to write formatted content in a readable syntax. Additionally, it supports custom fields such as OpenAPI specs, making it an ideal choice for API documentation. It also has a style guide that ensures consistency across documents, and an offline/local search feature to make finding information easier.
